---
roleOne: Text
roleOneName: Yara Nahle
roleTwo: Research
roleTwoName: Omar Khoury
---

When Mazen and Farah decided to start a family, approximately eight years ago, they were aware of the challenges ahead. Reconciling their professional ambitions with the demands of family life would be a complex task. They would need to devise the right formula to distribute household chores between them. The matter was even more difficult because they had nothing to base themselves on. The practices of their parents and previous generations no longer suited the current social context, particularly in light of the changing role of women, which only increased their responsibilities. More importantly, it was necessary to maintain a standard of living suitable to raising children, in a country that provides its citizens with no guarantees or social protection.

A few years into their marriage (during which they had two children, Sari, seven and Salma, one), Mazen and Farah found themselves facing a dilemma. They had more and more responsibilities to bear, but their ability to handle them declined, which led to a feeling of helplessness and a loss of control over their lives. This, in turn, affected their relationship, so they sought out the help of a counselor.

Below are parts of the sessions that the couple conducted with the counselor, over a period of three years, during which the couple identified ways to address conflicts caused by domestic burdens. They hired a foreign domestic worker, but their economic conditions deteriorated due to the current crisis, and they were forced to search for alternative solutions.


Session 1: March 14, 2017

Farah: I admit I can’t handle this amount of pressure any more. Sometimes I feel completely broken. A few days ago, Mazen asked me "What's wrong with you? Why are you being so hysterical?" The comment really bothered me. The word is so negative and degrading to me and to women in general. As if female biology and I were to blame for not being able to catch a breath in this daily marathon.
There are not enough hours in the day to do all I have to do. I'm not an octopus with eight arms to take care of everything at once: the house, the two children, my work, Mazen, and myself... I spend my nights nursing and caring for the little one. In the morning, before going to work, I try to conceal the dark circles around my tired eyes with makeup, in vain. I can't hide the traces of fatigue on my face or its effects on my deteriorating mental health. I am unable to focus at work. My colleagues have started noticing this. Recently my boss asked me, "What's happening? I know you. This is not you." She doesn't understand how exhausted I am. 

How can I focus on work if my mind is actively occupied with a thousand and one worries? Is Salma okay at the nursery, or has she not stopped crying since I told her goodbye this morning? Did Sari get to school on time, or was he scolded by the teacher for being late as usual? Can Mazen pick him up in the afternoon or do I have to leave the office early? I also need to go to the supermarket to buy things for the holiday. I get depressed every time Mazen tells me he has invited someone over for dinner. I love meeting family and friends around the dinner table, but I don't like having to prepare food for hours, and then do all the washing and cleaning afterwards. All this while I hold Salma in my arms. 

There was a time she wouldn’t let me out of her sight. As soon as I left her, she would start crying. Sometimes, I can't even go into the kitchen to chop an onion. A one-hour recipe takes me four hours to finish. Sometimes I don't leave the kitchen before 11 PM. I am not seeing my parents. I feel guilty and angry about not spending time with them. Trivial things make me angry and I can't handle comments or criticism from anyone. I even yell at my children when they have too many requests, and I feel that I can’t fulfill any of them. What I mean to say is that I am not hysterical, as Mazen claims. Our lifestyle is hysterical.

Counselor: Have you thought of ways to ease these burdens?

Farah: It's one of two solutions: Either I hire someone to help me at home, or one of us quits their job to take care of the children full-time. The second option is out of the question for either of us. I will definitely not leave my job to go clean the house, especially when my job offers me a good salary and decent working hours. No, I definitely won't quit my job. Neither will Mazen.
